Adding QNAP docs (#3792)
owncloud/docs: modules/admin_manual/pages/qnap/index.adoc

= ownCloud on QNAP
:toc: right
:toclevels: 1

== Introduction

If you have a QNAP NAS, you will soon be able to install the ownCloud app from the App Center and enjoy a ready-to-use ownCloud. The free-of-charge community edition can be used with up to five users and an unlimited number of guest users.

> In case you want to use Enterprise features, you'll need to purchase a license from the QNAP store, where you can also obtain licenses for additional users, after you've bought a license for the initial five.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use Enterprise features, you'll need to purchase a license from the QNAP store, where you can also obtain licenses for additional users, after you've bought a license for the initial five.
```

"if" sounds more natural in English than "in case"

The QNAP ready-to-use ownCloud installation should only be changed within very tight limits. If you change the database or web server configuration, the installation will likely break.

> All configuration should happen in the Web interface. However, command-line configuration via `occ` commands is availabe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All configuration should happen in the Web interface. However, command-line configuration via `occ` commands is available.
```

For more information on the web interface, refer to the xref:user_manual:webinterface.adoc[Web UI] documentation.

=== Configure your Email.

Email is an essential tool in ownCloud for notifying users, user registration, password resets, etc. Logged-in as admin, you can configure email in the menu:Admin[General] settings.

For more information, refer to section xref:configuration/server/email_configuration.adoc[Email Configuration].

=== Cron

ownCloud performs regular tasks in the background. In order to schedule them, a mechanism called "cron" is used. It's already set up for you, so you don't need to do anything. Make sure not to change cron-related settings unless you have a very good reason to do so.

NOTE: In general, we recommend to keep the default settings in the admin section.

== Users

A key feature of ownCloud is to allow users to share files. In the free community edition you can create up to five users, including an admin user, and grant access to an unlimited number of guest users.

> === Prerequisites:

Reviewer: IMO this is prerequisites for Guest users. If you don't need/want Guest users, then you don't need to do this.

Author: Right, but it's a feature. Some rephrasing...

. An email server must be configured and working.

. The Guests app must be installed and enabled in menu:admin[Settings > Admin > Apps]. For detailed information on the Guests app, see the xref:configuration/user/guests_app.adoc[Guests App section].
+
image:qnap/marketplace.png[ownCloud Marketplace and Guests App]

. Guest users must be able to access ownCloud either from within the same local network or via the internet.

=== Managing Users

In the menu:admin[Users] section you can create, disable, enable or delete users, add them to groups, grant administrator privileges and more.

image:qnap/users_on_qnap.png[User Management]

For detailed information see xref:configuration/user/user_configuration.adoc[User Management].

> After you have created users, they can upload files and share these with other ownCloud users and guest users. Folders can be created and shared as well. Sharing works via the email address of the user who should be granted access to certain files.

Reviewer: "Sharing works via the email address of the user who should be granted access to certain files."

Can  you have "ordinary/real" users, who do not have an email address? For those "ordinary/real" users, the sharing should work by user name? I am a bit mixed up reading this section and working out which sentences are about Guest users, and which are about ordinary users.

Author: A valid email address needs to be specified for all users, but of course the user name is enough if you want to share files. Will clarify.

Once a regular user shares a file or folder specifying an external email address, the recipient of the email becomes a guest user.

== Enabling ownCloud Apps

With the free community edition, you can use all apps that are published under the GPL or similar public licenses, e.g. the GNU Affero General Public License. These apps you can simply enable and enjoy.
In the upper left corner, click on the main menu with the three bars, select menu:Market and install what you like.

image:qnap/ownCloud_main_menu.png[ownCloud Main Menu]

A bundle of Enterprise Apps is published under the ownCloud Commercial License and only available with the Enterprise Edition. To see what's not included in the free community edition, select `App Bundles` in the left-hand navigation bar.

== Enterprise Edition and Licensing

> If you want to use enterprise features, obtain a license from the QNAP Store and activate it in the QNAP LicenseCenter. In case you want to have more regular users, you can buy additional licenses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use enterprise features, obtain a license from the QNAP Store and activate it in the QNAP LicenseCenter. If you want to have more regular users, you can buy additional licenses.
```

Licenses are valid for a year. If you don't renew them, only the first five users created will remain enabled and only non-enterprise apps. Should you decide to buy licenses again at a later point in time, you can enable the users you want to become active again in the web interface.

Users can also be enabled or disabled via `occ` commands. For more information on the ownCloud command line interface, see below. This would be particularly useful if the admin user accidentally gets disabled.

== Accessing your QNAP ownCloud from the Internet

If you want to connect to your ownCloud on QNAP from the Internet, you need to configure the network accordingly. In the menu:Main menu of your QNAP NAS, select menu:SYSTEMS[Network & Virtual Switch]. Under "Access Services" click on menu:DDNS (Dynamic Domain Name Service) then btn[Add]. Here you can configure the DDNS settings.

image:qnap/DDNS_qnap-cropped.png[DDNS Configuration on QNAP]

> In case you want to assign a static IP address, you need to access your QNAP device via `ssh` on the command line and edit the file `custom/user.config.php` in your top-level ownCloud app directory, e.g. `/share/CACHEDEV1_DATA/.qpkg/ownCloud`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to assign a static IP address, you need to access your QNAP device via `ssh` on the command line and edit the file `custom/user.config.php` in your top-level ownCloud app directory, e.g. `/share/CACHEDEV1_DATA/.qpkg/ownCloud`.
```

Create an entry like in the following example with the correct IP address:

[source,console]
----
<?php
$CONFIG = array(
    'overwriteprotocol' => 'https',
    'overwritehost' => '203.0.113.0',
    'overwrite.cli.url' => 'https://203.0.113.0/owncloud/',
);
----

> If you're using a subdomain instead of a subdirectory for ownCloud, adjust the URL accordingly with the correct prefix, e.g. `https://owncloud/203.0.113.0/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using a subdomain instead of a subdirectory for ownCloud, adjust the URL accordingly with the correct prefix, e.g. `https://203.0.113.0/owncloud/`.
```

The example looks the wrong way around to me.

Author: No, this was referring to subdomains could.yourdomain.com setup, but it should probably go.

You may also want to check out the QNAP FAQ:
https://www.qnap.com/en-us/how-to/faq/article/how-do-i-access-the-files-stored-on-my-nas-at-home-when-im-outside

For more information on command-line access, see below.

== Accessing ownCloud via Clients

> Besides logging in to ownCloud via the web interface, you can access it from iOS and Android devices by installing the respective apps, and there are desktop clients availble for Windows, Mac OS X and various Linux distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides logging in to ownCloud via the web interface, you can access it from iOS and Android devices by installing the respective apps, and there are desktop clients available for Windows, Mac OS X and various Linux distributions.
```

For more information, check out the ownCloud documentation on clients:
https://doc.owncloud.com/server/10.8/#desktop-client-and-mobile-apps

== Using External Storage

> With your ownCloud you can also use exteral storage services and devices. For more information, see section xref:configuration/files/external_storage/configuration.adoc[External Storage Configuration].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your ownCloud you can also use external storage services and devices. For more information, see section xref:configuration/files/external_storage/configuration.adoc[External Storage Configuration].
```

Users can also be enabled or disabled via `occ` commands. For more information on the ownCloud command line interface, see below.

== Accessing your QNAP ownCloud from the Internet

If you want to connect to your ownCloud on QNAP from the Internet, you need to configure the network accordingly. In the menu:Main menu of your QNAP NAS, select menu:SYSTEMS[Network & Virtual Switch]. Under "Access Services" click on menu:DDNS (Dynamic Domain Name Service) then btn[Add]. Here you can configure the DDNS settings.

// For more information see the official QNAP documentation at: ???

In case you want to assign a static IP address, you need to access your QNAP device via `ssh` on the command line and edit the file `custom/user.config.php` in your top-level ownCloud app directory, e.g. `/share/CACHEDEV1_DATA/.qpkg/ownCloud`.
Create an entry like in the following example with the correct IP address:

[source,console]
----
<?php
$CONFIG = array(
    'overwriteprotocol' => 'https',
    'overwritehost' => '10.20.3.400',
    'overwrite.cli.url' => 'https://10.20.3.400/owncloud/',
);

> ----

Reviewer 2: From the text I guess that ownCloud uses apache to be accessed via a subpage (directory) in the url, but this documentatin does not tell about. Needs to be clarified.

This is important, because if you want to access oC from the outside, you need to tell the `overwrite.cli.url` the correct address, which is either as in the example a subpage but can also be subdomain (https://owncloud/10.20.3.400).

`overwriteprotocol` and `overwritehost` are only important if using a proxy, see https://doc.owncloud.com/server/admin_manual/configuration/server/config_sample_php_parameters.html#proxy-configurations

Author: Thanks for the tip. With the next push, I'll add a hint to adjust the URL accordingly if a subdomain is used.

= ownCloud on a QNAP NAS

== Introduction

If you have a QNAP NAS (Network Attached Storage) system, you can install an ownCloud docker image from the QNAP App Center on your NAS. The free-of-charge community edition can be used with up to five users and an unlimited number of guest users.

In case you want to use Enterprise features, you can purchase an Enterprise license from the QNAP store. This also allows you to purchase licenses for more users.

> The QNAP ownCloud is designed to work out of the box. We strongly recommend not to change the database (PostgreSQL) or the Web server (Apache). All configuration should happen in the Web interface. However `occ` commands are availabe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The QNAP ownCloud is designed to work out of the box. We strongly recommend not to change the database (PostgreSQL) or the Web server (Apache). All configuration should happen in the Web interface. However command line configuration via `occ` commands is availabe.
```
QNAP users have no clue what occ means. Maybe you find a better way describing this.

== Preparation

If you haven't done so already, perform the following steps on you QNAP system:

. Create a storage pool in addition to the system volume. You can combine hard disks and solid state disks in RAID groups for flexible storage. This pool can be resized later if necessary.

> . Install container-station version 2.0 or higher from the QNAP Store in the AppCenter.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a hint for what this is good for / needed...

Author: Added a few words (virtualization and Docker).

=== Configure your email.

Email is an essential tool in ownCloud for notifying users, user registration, password resets, etc. Logged-in as admin, you can configure email in the menu:Admin[General] settings.

For more information, refer to the section xref:configuration/server/email_configuration.adoc[Email Configuration].

=== Cron

On the same page (menu:Admin[General]) you find the Cron settings.

Make sure Cron remains enabled. This daemon takes care of service jobs in 15-minute intervals.

NOTE: In general, we recommend to keep the default settings in the admin section.

== User Management

== Enterprise Edition and Licensing

If you need more users than five or want to use enterprise features, obtain an Enterprise License and possibly additonal user packages via the QNAP Store and activate them in the QNAP License Manager.

Licenses are valid for a year. If you don't renew them, only the first five users created will remain enabled as well as non-enterprise apps. Should you decide to buy an Enterprise license and user packages again, you can enable the users you want to become active again in the Web interface

== Enabling ownCloud Apps

> With the free community edition, you can only use apps with an ocl license. Look out for 'ocl' in the ownCloud Marketplace ...

Reviewer 2: Make a link for the marketplace.
Searching for ocl, nothing gets returned which might frustrate users...

Author: Yep, still need to check into this.

= ownCloud on a QNAP NAS

== Introduction

> If you have a QNAP NAS (Network Attached Storage) system, you can install an ownCloud docker image from the QNAP App Center on your NAS. The free-of-charge community edition can be used with up to five users and an unlimited number of guest users.

Author: Okay, I used your suggestion.

> In case you want to use Enterprise features, you can purchase an Enterprise license from the QNAP store. This also allows you to purchase licenses for more users.

Author: Adjusted.

> The QNAP ownCloud is designed to work out of the box. We strongly recommend not to change the database (PostgreSQL) or the Web server (Apache). All configuration should happen in the Web interface. However command line configuration via `occ` commands is availabe.

Reviewer 3: I would prefer a more restrictive wording:

We are providing a ready to use installation which can be changed within very tight limits. If you change anything database or web server related configuration, the installation will likely break.

Author: Done.

== Preparation

If you haven't done so already, perform the following steps on you QNAP system:

. Create a storage pool in addition to the system volume. You can combine hard disks and solid state disks in RAID groups for flexible storage. This pool can be resized later if necessary.

. In the AppCenter, go to the QNAP Store and install Container Station version 2.0 or higher, which provides virtualization and Docker technogies. 

> . Enable `ssh` (secure shell) in the ControlPanel. In the navigation bar on the left side, select menu:Networks & File Services[Telnet / SSH]. Check `Allow SSH connection` and specify the port number (default 22). Next, check `Enable SFTP`. Once you click btn:[Apply], your admin user can log in to your NAS remotely.

Reviewer 3: This is only needed I one wants to issue `occ` commands. So we should not require this in this step.

Author: Okay, moved to occ section for now.

== Installation of ownCloud

Go to the AppCenter and select QNAP Store.

> Search for ownCloud(_10.8.0_x86_64.qpkg) and click btn:[Install]. Confirm that you want to install this package. During installation you'll see a progress bar displaying the percentage.

Reviewer 3: That is the current workflow to install developer builds since we are not yet on the QNAP store.

Author: Okay, let me know how it will work on the QNAP Store.

After a successful installation, ownCloud 10.8.0 will show up in the AppCenter under menu:QNAP Store[My Apps]. Click on btn:[Open] and proceed with the configuration.

== Configuration

=== First steps

Log in as user `admin`. The default password is `admin` until you change it. In the upper right-hand corner, click on menu:Admin[Settings]. In the left hand navigation bar you find personal configuration options and admin-specific options. Under menu:Personal[General] you can change the password of you admin user.

For more information on the Web interface, refer to the xref:user_manual:webinterface.adoc[Web UI] documentation.

=== Configure your email.

Email is an essential tool in ownCloud for notifying users, user registration, password resets, etc. Logged-in as admin, you can configure email in the menu:Admin[General] settings.

For more information, refer to the section xref:configuration/server/email_configuration.adoc[Email Configuration].

=== Cron

On the same page (menu:Admin[General]) you find the Cron settings.

Make sure Cron remains enabled. This daemon takes care of service jobs in 15-minute intervals.

> NOTE: In general, we recommend to keep the default settings in the admin section.

Reviewer 3: For people less familiar with ownCloud this might be confusing.

I would propose something like that:
```
ownCloud performs regular tasks. In order to schedule them a mechanism called "cron" is used. It's already set up for you so you don't need to care about it. Please make sure to not change cron related settings except for a reason.
```

Author: Okay.

== User Management

== Enabling ownCloud Apps

With the free community edition, you can use all apps that are published under the GPL or similar public licenses, e.g. the GNU Affero General Public License. These you can simply install and enjoy.
In the upper left corner, click on menu:Files[Market]. Here you can have your pick.

A bundle of Enterprise Apps is published under the ownCloud Commercial License and only available with the Enterprise Edition. To see what's not included in the free community edition, select `App Bundles` in the left-hand navigation bar.

== Enterprise Edition and Licensing

> If you need more users than five or want to use enterprise features, obtain an Enterprise License and possibly additonal user packages via the QNAP Store and activate them in the QNAP License Manager.

Reviewer 3: I'm not really sure if we should call it an `Enterprise License` at any time. Because we don't have it technically and you cannot activate an `Enterprice License` on QNAP (this also applies to the trial mechanism shown here https://owncloud.com/try-owncloud-enterprise/).
We have QNAP licenses and they activate an Enterprise Edition.

Author: Adjusted.

Licenses are valid for a year. If you don't renew them, only the first five users created will remain enabled as well as non-enterprise apps. Should you decide to buy an Enterprise license and user packages again, you can enable the users you want to become active again in the Web interface

== Backing up the Database

== Console Management

== occ commands

== Trouble Shooting

Via the QuLog Center utility you can check the log entries.

The event notifications in the top tool bar will also tell you if something has gone wrong.

If you forgot to install the Container Station, an error message will pop up during the installation of ownCloud. Click on the link "System Event Log" in the pop-up window to find out what actually went wrong or hit btn:[OK] and install the Container Station. Then start the installation of ownCloud again. 

== FAQ

. How to resize a storage pool or add a new disk

> . How to grant access to guest users

Reviewer 3: prerequisites:
- email server is configured and working
- guest app is installed from marketplace / activated in the apps settings (since it is installed as default)
- guest user must be able to access the ownCloud (Same network, exposed to the internet.... this will need some more description in an own chapter / FAQ )

grant access:
- share a file / folder with the email address of guest user
